Made updates to current issues in Linked-List file (#3985)
Codecademy/docs: content/c/concepts/linked-list/linked-list.md

---
Title: 'Linked List'
Description: 'A data structure that contains a collection of nodes that together with the help of pointers, display a sequence.'
Subjects:
  - 'Code Foundations'
  - 'Computer Science'
Tags:
  - 'Singly linked lists'
  - 'Doubly linked lists'  
  - 'Circular linked lists'
  - 'Circular doubly linked lists'
CatalogContent:
  - 'learn-c'
  - 'paths/computer-science'
---

A **`Linked List`** is a data structure that contains a collection of `nodes` that together with the help of pointers, display a sequence. There are a number of list types, we will cover four of the most common with examples in the `C language`.

## Syntax

```pseudo
#include 
#include 

typedef struct Node {
    void* data;
    struct Node *next;
} Node;
- //push to the front of the list

> struct Node* push(struct Node* head, void* data) {
>     struct Node* new_node = (struct Node*)malloc(sizeof(struct Node));
>     new_node->data = data;
>     new_node->next = head;
>     return new_node;
> }
> int main(){
>     Node* list = NULL;
> -    //remember to set the list after push
>     list = push(list, "!");
>     list = push(list, "World ");
>     list = push(list, "Hello ");
> -    //print out the elements
>     Node* crnt = list;
>     while(crnt != NULL){
>         printf("%s", crnt->data);
>         crnt = crnt->next;
>     }
>     return 0;
> }

Reviewer: ```suggestion
struct Node* push(struct Node* head, void* data) {
  struct Node* new_node = (struct Node*)malloc(sizeof(struct Node));
  new_node->data = data;
  new_node->next = head;
  return new_node;
}
int main(){
  Node* list = NULL;
-    //remember to set the list after push
  list = push(list, "!");
  list = push(list, "World ");
  list = push(list, "Hello ");
-    //print out the elements
  Node* crnt = list;
  while(crnt != NULL){
      printf("%s", crnt->data);
      crnt = crnt->next;
  }
  return 0;
}
```

```

> ## Example

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Example

```

The following C code showcases the creation and traversal of a linked list, which is comprised of a series of nodes with integer values of 10, 20 and 30. The nodes are connected continuously from head to tail displaying the elements of the linked list.

```c
#include
#include

int main()
{
  //node structure
  struct node
  {
      int data;
      struct node *next;
  };

  //declaring nodes
  struct node *head,*middle,*last;

  //allocating memory for each node
  head   = malloc(sizeof(struct node));
  middle = malloc(sizeof(struct node));
  last   = malloc(sizeof(struct node));

  //assigning values to each node
  head->data   = 10;
  middle->data = 20;
  last->data   = 30;

  //connecting each nodes. head->middle->last
  head->next   = middle;
  middle->next = last;
  last->next   = NULL;

  //temp is a reference for head pointer.
  struct node *temp = head;

  //till the node becomes null, printing each nodes data
  while(temp != NULL)
  {
      printf("%d->",temp->data);
      temp = temp->next;
  }
  printf("NULL");

  return 0;
}
```

> ### Singly linked lists

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Singly linked lists

```

A `singly linked` list is a collection of data called `nodes`, where each `node` is divided into two parts to store `data` and `address` at some random addresses. The pointer next, points to the address of the next `node` in a list.

```c
#include <stdio.h>

struct node {
  int data;
  struct node *next;
};

void main() {
  struct node *head = NULL;
  struct node *current = NULL;
  int i;

  for (i = 0; i < 5; i++) {
    struct node *new_node = malloc(sizeof(struct node));
    new_node->data = i;
    new_node->next = NULL;

    if (head == NULL) {
      head = new_node;
      current = new_node;
    } else {
      current->next = new_node;
      current = new_node;
    }
  }

  while (head != NULL) {
    printf("%d\n", head->data);
    head = head->next;
  }
}
```

> ### Doubly linked lists

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Doubly linked lists

```

A `doubly linked list` consists of two pointers that store the address of the next successive `node` and the `address` of the previous node.

```c
#include <stdio.h>

struct node {
  int data;
  struct node *next;
  struct node *prev;
};

void insert_at_beginning(struct node **head, int data) {
  struct node *new_node = (struct node *)malloc(sizeof(struct node));
  new_node->data = data;
  new_node->next = *head;
  new_node->prev = NULL;
  if (*head != NULL) {
    (*head)->prev = new_node;
  }
  *head = new_node;
}

void insert_at_end(struct node **head, int data) {
  struct node *new_node = (struct node *)malloc(sizeof(struct node));
  new_node->data = data;
  new_node->next = NULL;
  new_node->prev = *head;
  if (*head != NULL) {
    (*head)->next = new_node;
  }
  *head = new_node;
}

void print_list(struct node *head) {
  while (head != NULL) {
    printf("%d ", head->data);
    head = head->next;
  }
  printf("\n");
}

int main() {
  struct node *head = NULL;
  insert_at_beginning(&head, 1);
  insert_at_beginning(&head, 2);
  insert_at_end(&head, 3);
  insert_at_end(&head, 4);
  print_list(head);
  return 0;
}
```

> ### Circular linked lists

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Circular linked lists

```

A `circular linked` list is a list in which the nodes are connected in a sequence, where the last node always points to the head (first) node of the `linked list`.

```c
#include <stdio.h>

struct node {
  int data;
  struct node *next;
};

struct node *head = NULL;

void insert(int data) {
  struct node *newNode = (struct node *)malloc(sizeof(struct node));
  newNode->data = data;
  newNode->next = NULL;

  if (head == NULL) {
    head = newNode;
    newNode->next = head;
  } else {
    struct node *temp = head;
    while (temp->next != head) {
      temp = temp->next;
    }
    temp->next = newNode;
    newNode->next = head;
  }
}

void print() {
  struct node *temp = head;
  while (temp->next != head) {
    printf("%d ", temp->data);
    temp = temp->next;
  }
  printf("%d ", temp->data);
  printf("\n");
}

int main() {
  insert(1);
  insert(2);
  insert(3);
  print();
  return 0;
}
```

> ### Circular doubly linked lists

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Circular doubly linked lists

```

---
Title: 'Linked List'
Description: 'A data structure that contains a collection of nodes that together with the help of pointers, display a sequence.'
Subjects:
  - 'Code Foundations'
  - 'Computer Science'
Tags:

>   - 'Singly linked lists'

Reviewer 2: These are not legit tags. Tags must come from [this list](https://github.com/Codecademy/docs/blob/main/documentation/tags.md).

Author: Hi @SSwiniarski thank you for your review. Are you referring to everything on lines 5-8? If so, what would you recommend or would you have any suggestions on what I should replace with?

  - 'Doubly linked lists'  
  - 'Circular linked lists'
  - 'Circular doubly linked lists'
CatalogContent:
  - 'learn-c'
  - 'paths/computer-science'
---

> A **`Linked List`** is a data structure that contains a collection of `nodes` that together with the help of pointers, display a sequence. There are several list types, we will cover four of the most common with examples in the [C language](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/c).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A **`Linked List`** is a data structure that contains a collection of `nodes` that together with the help of pointers, display a sequence. There are several list types, four of the most common are discussed below.
```
Avoid first and second person pronouns in docs, also this is a C entry, there's no need to reiterate the examples are in C.

Author: This change has been update and pushed for review.

> ## Syntax

Reviewer 2: The Syntax section seems to be superfluous given the below examples. Usually a Syntax section really only applies to an illustration of using a built-in function or method, where this is more an illustration of linked lists in C.

Author: @SSwiniarski For this one I'm not quite sure how to turn this into a simple syntax without removing how it works. What do you recommend or have as a rough example to replace?

---

A **`Linked List`** is a data structure that contains a collection of `nodes` that together with the help of pointers, display a sequence. There are a number of list types, we will cover four of the most common with examples in the `C language`.

## Syntax

```pseudo
#include 
#include 

typedef struct Node {
    void* data;
    struct Node *next;
} Node;
- //push to the front of the list
struct Node* push(struct Node* head, void* data) {
  struct Node* new_node = (struct Node*)malloc(sizeof(struct Node));
  new_node->data = data;
  new_node->next = head;
  return new_node;
}
int main(){
  Node* list = NULL;
-    //remember to set the list after push
  list = push(list, "!");
  list = push(list, "World ");
  list = push(list, "Hello ");
-    //print out the elements
  Node* crnt = list;
  while(crnt != NULL){
      printf("%s", crnt->data);
      crnt = crnt->next;
  }
  return 0;
}
```

## Example

The following C code showcases the creation and traversal of a linked list, which is comprised of a series of nodes with integer values of 10, 20 and 30. The nodes are connected continuously from head to tail displaying the elements of the linked list.

```c
#include

> #include

Reviewer: What are these headers? I don't think these are completed please fix this.

Author: Hi Dak, thank you for reviewing my latest updates. I went ahead and fixed headers. Please review and let me know if anything else needs review. I went ahead and added along w/ commited and pushed to main branch.

Please advise :)
